in Israel the memories of the Hamas
Terror attacks on the 7th of October are
still raw yet despite the ongoing
hostilities some Israelis are returning
to the communities that were hardest hit
in those attacks the village of native
hasara is just 100 Metter from the
border with Gaza it was the first
Community to be stormed on the 7th of
October DW's Tanya krer went to meet
some of the people who are
returning
hila fenon is back for good she plans to
rebuild her life in
naar an Israeli community on the border
with
Gaza I can't say that when I come here
at night I don't look
twice uh before I oh I don't look twice
before I uh you know go into a
greenhouse but it's something that it's
fading away as more as time goes by but
it will never go away completely the
this October 7th was will always stay
part of what happened
[Music]
here fenon is a farmer she grows
vegetables for seeds her green houses
were damaged by rocket fire from Gaza
and trapnel from Israel's defense system
she's confident she can rebuild the
green houses other things will be more
difficult they manage to kill H 20
members of our community H young people
old people families complete families
were vanished and injur many many others
uh we were in a situation that we were
our homes were invaded by terrorists for
12 hours H and H they just did whatever
they want and what they wanted was to
pour Blood on the
land ni hassar was the first Community
to be attacked by Hamas militants who
breached the border from Gaza on October
7th a family was killed in this
house fenlon hid for hours with her
family in the safe room of her
home today she tells me she feels safe
enough to come here Gaza is on the other
side of the
fence in the distance the Palestinian
town of banon lies in
Ruins sometimes you can hear the war
being fought over
there so we can't help them get rid of
Hamas but we we are here waiting for
them to do that if the everyday people
in Gaza want to have better life they
need to make sure that Hamas will not
control them and will not control the
region anymore and then better future
will come for them and for us as
well rocket fire from Gaza has become
rare but most residents are still not
allowed to return to their homes f is
one of the few who stays
overnight when you're a farmer you're a
full-time farmer so for me to overcome
what happened was to continue with as
much as I can with the life we had it
before I'm full of Hope because of how
people came together how do Israel is
helped each other how they are together
United in times like this H and this is
my
hope remembering October 7th will always
be important she says but is now trying
to focus on the
future